[Applause]
[Music]
hey everyone welcome back to the channel
now i've seen so many people criticizing
ben affleck's batman because he kills
now today i will be explaining why
batman kills in batman v superman and
how he isn't the only batman who has
killed so for context in the comics
batman doesn't kill or use guns to honor
his parents death when they were
murdered by a criminal
if batman was to kill he would think he
is no better than the criminals he tries
to stop
in batman v superman we are introduced
to a batman who's been around for 20
years
as we watch the film we see a very cruel
and murderous batman where he becomes
judge jury and executioner
this is evidently a batman that we have
not seen before in previous films
now at first glance it would seem like
this isn't batman
and that's supposed to be the case this
is meant to be a batman we do not
recognize
this is a batman who has lost robin due
to joker killing him
the whole film is meant to be about
batman losing his way and becoming a
villain himself
he became batman to stop criminals after
the death of his parents now he has
become the criminal holding the gun
he accepts that he is a criminal and
claims that he has always been a
criminal new rules
we're criminals alfred we've always been
criminals nothing's changed
alfred talks about how everything has
changed and that batman has become cruel
because he feels powerless due to
superman's arrival so we know that
batman has only been this cruel for the
past couple of years since superman made
himself known
the point i'm trying to make is that
batman kills in this film for a reason
it's a part of his character arc when we
first meet him he is a cruel murderous
batman who has become a villain the only
person who makes him snap out of that
murderous rage and starts the road of
redemption is the person who he's been
trying to kill superman
with his dying breath superman asks
bruce to save martha and no it's not
because they have the same name it's the
parallel between those two moments in
bruce's life
batman is now holding the gun that
killed his parents
he realizes that he has become the
criminal who killed his mother
and with superman's dying breath he asks
for his killer to save his mother
something bruce was never able to do
that is why batman doesn't kill superman
not because their mothers have the same
name but because he realizes that he has
become in a way his mother's killer we
see halfway through the film that the
criminal batman branded who got killed
in prison had a wife and son
he is now dead because of batman
superman makes bruce realize all his
wrongs and in that moment bruce decides
that he has to change
that doesn't mean an instant change
though it takes time to change how you
act it's not like a light switch that
you can just turn off
the argument that this is a terrible
version of batman because he kills and
batman in the comics has the no kill
rule is incorrect or at least by that
logic if we were to use that logic that
a batman that neglects the no kill rule
is not batman or a terrible version then
christopher nolan's batman is a terrible
version of batman and so is keaton's
batman by that logic that is i still
think they are great batfleck is the
only batman to use him killing as the
plot of the film they don't hide from it
they embrace his flaws to tell in my
opinion a great story the other
criticism is the fact that batman uses
guns in the film which is another thing
that batman doesn't use in the comics
that is a part of his criminal behavior
and acts as another indication that he
has become his mother's killer he is now
the gun who killed his mother superman's
sacrifice inspired bruce to be better
superman was criticized and ridiculed
for every single thing he did
batman tried to kill him the government
fired a nuclear missile at him but he
didn't give up on earth
he sacrificed himself for a world that
made him feel so much pain
batman gave up on the people of earth
and became as bad as the criminals he
was trying to stop when he saw what
superman did it inspired him to be
better he states this at the end of the
film man is still good
we fight
we kill we betray one another but we can
rebuild we can do better we will we have
to then in zack snyder's justice league
he brings the league together and brings
superman back to life then in the
justice league sequels he was going to
fully redeem himself but i won't go into
those too much this has to be the most
misunderstood batman ever in my opinion
and gets unwarranted criticism i think
you have to accept that this isn't a
batman pulled straight from the comics
and instead an adaptation and a what if
story
what if batman became a villain just
because it's different to the comics
doesn't mean it's bad it's just a unique
and refreshing take to the character
that fits the universe snyder was trying
to create so that is why batman kills in
batman v superman because the story is
supposed to show what batman would be
like if he had become a villain himself
and how he can still be pulled from the
dark but that is all for today's video
thank you so much for watching please
make sure to like and subscribe and turn
on post notifications so you never miss
a video i hope to see you here again
soon so until then have a great day bye
[Music]